  This is Aravind, i had an interview yesterday, i was asked many questions, but i could not give proper answers for some questions, so please send me the answers for the following questions.

1) How to auto deploy a war file into tomcat?  (process)
   You can deploy it in many ways
   a) Using Tomcat manager
   b) unsing ant script by downloading catalina.jar file and define custome ant tasks
   c) You can deploy using Jenkins by placing the war file in webapps
   d) You can deploy using shell scripts by placing the war file in webapps
2) How to deploy a war file into tomcat  by shellscripting(process) when you are working on linux machine?
   Make use of scp command in shellscript to copy the war file to tomcat webapps directory
3) what would you do if your servers are of linux machines and you are working on windows machine, when you are doing automation and deployment ?
  I will make use of pscp and plink to do the deployment and perform the actions on linux server from windows
4) why do use jenkins instead of ant as both tools are used for the same purpose like building artifacts and deploy those to servers ?
   Reasons:
   1. Ant requires scripting knowledge, but jenkins is easier to deploy by configuring the things
   2. A nt can perform the compilation but jenkins cant do it as it again make uses of ant scripting inside
   3. Jenkins is a CI tool but ant is a build script automation tool
   4. You can do scheduling in Jenkins but not in Ant
   5. You can get the history of triggered builds in Jenkins but not in Ant
   

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Hi Chiranjeevi,

Today i gone for interview in IBM, it was nearly 1 hr interview. They asked many questions. Here are some questions.
So, please provide me the proper solution.

How you will deploy the same .war file in multiple servers 
Need Ans

How to execute .sql file in db server
Need Ans

What is the process you will follow to give the installable file to client.
I said Compile the code, Convert it into required format jar,war or ear and deploy it into servers . And also I said i will give installable file in cd to the client with complete specification details.

Then they asked another question like
How do you convert .war file into .msi file(installable file)
Need Ans

How to run the file.sh shell script in ant.
Need Ans

How to call a target of another file with in the different file.
Need Ans
  